Feature: Phil's thinking stream during programme generation
While a programme is generating, Phil shows his thinking process in the chat panel as a live stream of messages. This replaces the current popup.
Implementation:
When generation starts, Phil sends a sequence of short messages into the chat thread one by one with a brief delay between each (~800ms). These appear as normal Phil messages in the panel, giving the feeling that Phil is working through the plan in real time.
The messages are generated by Phil based on the actual plan being built — not hardcoded. Pass the plan parameters to a separate lightweight AI call that returns 4-6 short thinking messages before the full generation completes.
The thinking stream prompt:
tsconst thinkingPrompt = `
You are Phil, an AI coach. You are about to build this programme:
${planSummary}

Generate 4-6 very short messages (1 sentence each) that show your coaching thought process 
as you build it. These should feel like a coach thinking out loud — referencing the actual 
plan details. Be specific, be Phil. No fluff.

Examples of good thinking messages:
- "Starting with a 3-week accumulation block before we back off."
- "Keeping Monday as your heaviest day — you'll be freshest."
- "Building the runs around your strength days so you're not dead on both."
- "Week 4 is a deload. Don't skip it, it's where the gains actually happen."
- "Pairing bench and rows on the same day — push/pull, saves time."

Return as a JSON array of strings only.
`;
Display:

Messages appear one by one in the Phil chat panel with ~800ms between each
Each message appears as a normal Phil message with his avatar
A subtle animated typing indicator (three dots) shows between messages
After all thinking messages, a final message: "Right. Let's go." then the programme lands on the calendar
The thinking messages stay in the chat history — user can scroll back and see Phil's reasoning

Timing:

Thinking stream runs in parallel with the actual generation — don't wait for thinking to finish before starting generation
If generation completes before all thinking messages have shown, hold the calendar update until the last thinking message and "Right. Let's go." have displayed
Maximum wait: 6 seconds. If generation takes longer than 6 seconds, thinking messages continue until it's done

Do not change:

The actual programme generation logic
The JSON parsing fix from the previous command
Anything in the coach or admin UI