Fix: Dashboard data, PB display, consistency, run goal, strength records consolidation
Part 1 — Run goal percentage fix
The current formula uses raw ratio which produces 0% when no improvement has been logged yet. Replace with gap-closed calculation using the most relevant baseline:
tsfunction getRunGoalPercentage(goal, allTimePB, currentEstimate) {
  // Use the more recent/relevant baseline
  // If current estimate exists and is worse than all-time PB, use estimate as baseline
  // (accounts for injury comebacks, time away from training)
  const baseline = currentEstimate ?? allTimePB;
  if (!baseline || !goal.target) return null;
  
  // For run times, lower is better
  // % = gap closed from baseline toward target
  const totalGap = baseline - goal.target; // e.g. 97:00 - 90:00 = 7 mins
  const currentGap = (currentEstimate ?? baseline) - goal.target;
  const pct = Math.round(((totalGap - currentGap) / totalGap) * 100);
  
  return Math.max(0, Math.min(100, pct));
}
If no improvement has been logged yet, show "Starting point set" instead of 0%. Never show 0% as a percentage — it implies no progress has been made when really it just means they haven't logged enough yet.
Part 2 — PB display: all-time vs current estimate
For each performance metric (Squat, Bench, Deadlift, 5K, Half Marathon etc) show two values side by side:
SQUAT
All-time PB: 210kg
Current est: 101kg  😟
BENCH  
All-time PB: 53kg
Current est: 58kg  🟢 Above PB
Rules:

All-time PB = highest value ever logged manually or from a session (for strength) / fastest time ever (for runs)
Current estimate = calculated from recent sessions (last 8 weeks) using Epley formula for strength, Riegel for runs
If current estimate is above all-time PB: show in green with a note "Above PB" — this is a new PB territory, call it out
If current estimate is below all-time PB: show with 😟 emoji — no text needed, the gap is obvious
If no all-time PB exists: show only current estimate, label it "Current est."
If no current estimate exists (not enough recent data): show only all-time PB, label it "All-time PB"
Remove "Baseline set" label entirely — it means nothing to a user

Part 3 — Consistency count fix
Investigate why 5/5 is showing when there are 6 sessions in the week. Most likely cause: one session was added manually after the week started and isn't being counted as a "planned" session, only as a completed one.
Fix the planned session count to include ALL sessions on the calendar for that week regardless of when they were added — not just sessions that existed at the start of the week. A session is planned if it exists on the calendar. A session is completed if it has been logged (at least one set logged, or session marked complete).
Part 4 — "This week" deficit — show pace vs last week at same point
Replace the current red deficit display with a contextual comparison:
Instead of showing the full week deficit (which is misleading on Monday):
DISTANCE RUN
23.0 km
5.9 km  28.9 km last wk
Show where you were at this same day last week:
DISTANCE RUN
23.0 km this week
By this point last week: 20.1 km  +2.9km ahead
VOLUME LIFTED
7.8t this week
By this point last week: 10.8t  -3.0t behind

Ahead = green
Behind = red
"By this point last week" calculated as: sum of all activity up to and including the equivalent day of last week (e.g. if today is Wednesday, compare to Mon+Tue+Wed of last week)
Never show a full week comparison mid-week — it's always same-day-of-week comparison

Part 5 — Strength Records and Edit Dashboard consolidation
Remove the separate "Strength Records" section from the dashboard entirely. It duplicates what's in Edit Dashboard.
Consolidate into one unified system under Edit Dashboard "YOUR CURRENT PBs":
The PB section in Edit Dashboard becomes the single place to:

View all tracked lifts and their all-time PBs
Enter or update manual PBs
Add custom lifts (+ Add lift button)
Hide lifts you don't care about (toggle per lift)
See current estimate alongside all-time PB

On the dashboard itself, the PERFORMANCE section shows only the lifts the user has chosen to show (not hidden). Maximum 4 shown by default — user controls which ones via Edit Dashboard. If they hide Deadlift and Snatch, those don't appear. If they add a custom lift and mark it as shown, it appears.
PERFORMANCE
[Shows only user's selected lifts, max 4 visible, 
 controlled entirely from Edit Dashboard]
The "+ Add lift" and hide/show toggles live only in Edit Dashboard. Not on the dashboard itself.
Part 6 — Remove repetition between Performance cards and Edit Dashboard PBs
Currently the same data (Squat, Bench, Deadlift, 5K) appears in both places in different formats. Unify the data source:

One clientLifts table as the source of truth for all lifts
Dashboard performance cards read from this table
Edit Dashboard PB inputs write to this table
All-time PB, current estimate, and manual entry all stored here
No duplication, no separate tables for the same data

Do not change:

The fitness score calculation
Any calendar or programme logic
Phil's context or responses
Any coach or admin UI